[Version 9.0] Feature support for function pointers (#1459)
dotnet/csharpstandard: standard/expressions.md

Reviewer: We'll want to remove this TODO - it's not clear to me whether the text additions later are sufficient.

- If `E` is a tuple literal with arity `N` and elements `Eᵢ`, and `T` is a tuple type with arity `N` with corresponding element types `Tₑ` or `T` is a nullable value type `T0?` and `T0` is a tuple type with arity `N` that has a corresponding element type `Tₑ`, then for each `Eᵢ` an output type inference is made from `Eᵢ` to `Tₑ`.
- If `E` is an anonymous function with inferred return type `U` ([§12.6.3.14](expressions.md#126314-inferred-return-type)) and `T` is a delegate type or expression tree type with return type `Tₓ`, then a *lower-bound inference* ([§12.6.3.11](expressions.md#126311-lower-bound-inferences)) is made *from* `U` *to* `Tₓ`.
- Otherwise, if `E` is a method group and `T` is a delegate type or expression tree type with parameter types `T₁...Tᵥ` and return type `Tₓ`, and overload resolution of `E` with the types `T₁...Tᵥ` yields a single method with return type `U`, then a *lower-bound inference* is made *from* `U` *to* `Tₓ`.

> - If `E` is an address-of method group and `T` is a function pointer type (§function-pointers) then with parameter types `T1..Tk` and return type `Tb`, and overload resolution of `E` with the types `T1..Tk` yields a single method with return type `U`, then a *lower-bound inference* is made from `U` to `Tb`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If `E` is an address-of method group and `T` is a function pointer type (§function-pointers) then with parameter types `T₁..Tₖ` and return type `Tₓ`, and overload resolution of `E` with the types `T₁..Tₖ` yields a single method with return type `U`, then a *lower-bound inference* is made from `U` to `Tₓ`.
```

(Note: changing "b" to "x" as there's no Unicode subscript for b.)

  - `V` is an array type `V₁[...]`and `U` is an array type `U₁[...]`of the same rank
  - `V` is one of `IEnumerable<V₁>`, `ICollection<V₁>`, `IReadOnlyList<V₁>>`, `IReadOnlyCollection<V₁>` or `IList<V₁>` and `U` is a single-dimensional array type `U₁[]`
  - `V` is a constructed `class`, `struct`, `interface` or `delegate` type `C<V₁...Vₑ>` and there is a unique type `C<U₁...Uₑ>` such that `U` (or, if `U` is a type `parameter`, its effective base class or any member of its effective interface set) is identical to, `inherits` from (directly or indirectly), or implements (directly or indirectly) `C<U₁...Uₑ>`.

>   - `V` is a function pointer type (§function-pointers) `delegate*<V2..Vk, V1>` and there is a function pointer type `delegate*<U2..Uk, U1>` such that `U` is identical to `delegate*<U2..Uk, U1>`, and the calling convention of `V` is identical to `U`, and the refness of `Vi` is identical to `Ui`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `V` is a function pointer type (§function-pointers) `delegate*<V₂..Vₖ, V₁>` and there is a function pointer type `delegate*<U₂..Uₖ, U₁>` such that `U` is identical to `delegate*<U₂..Uₖ, U₁>`, and the calling convention of `V` is identical to `U`, and the refness of `Vᵢ` is identical to `Uᵢ`.
```

>   - `V` is a function pointer type (§function-pointers) `delegate*<V2..Vk, V1>` and there is a function pointer type `delegate*<U2..Uk, U1>` such that `U` is identical to `delegate*<U2..Uk, U1>`, and the calling convention of `V` is identical to `U`, and the refness of `Vi` is identical to `Ui`.

Reviewer: For later polish: we should check whether we've got a better term than "refness".

Author: I don't think we do. I think we should.

    > *Note*: This is only applicable in unsafe code. *end note*
  - (The “uniqueness” restriction means that in the case interface `C<T>{} class U: C<X>, C<Y>{}`, then no inference is made when inferring from `U` to `C<T>` because `U₁` could be `X` or `Y`.)
  If any of these cases apply then an inference is made from each `Uᵢ` to the corresponding `Vᵢ` as follows:

>   - If `Uᵢ` is not known to be a reference type then an *exact inference* is made; or alternatively, if `U` is not a function pointer type and `Ui` is not known to be a reference type, or if `U` is a function pointer type and `Ui` is not known to be a function pointer type or a reference type, then an exact inference is made

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If `Uᵢ` is not known to be a reference type then an *exact inference* is made; or alternatively, if `U` is not a function pointer type and `Uᵢ` is not known to be a reference type, or if `U` is a function pointer type and `Uᵢ` is not known to be a function pointer type or a reference type, then an exact inference is made
```

Reviewer: I think we'll want to reword this bullet - I know I find it confusing at the moment...

Author: I think this bullet is trying to make the point that a function pointer (`delegate*`) is classified as a *pointer_type*. So, an exact isn't needed for a function pointer, the rules are detailed in the unsafe code clause.

    > *Note*: This is only applicable in unsafe code. *end note*
  - Otherwise, if `U` is an array type then a *lower-bound inference* is made
  - Otherwise, if `V` is `C<V₁...Vₑ>` then inference depends on the `i-th` type parameter of `C`:
    - If it is covariant then a *lower-bound inference* is made.
    - If it is contravariant then an *upper-bound inference* is made.
    - If it is invariant then an *exact inference* is made.

>   - Otherwise, if `V` is `delegate*<V2..Vk, V1>` then inference depends on the i-th parameter of `delegate*<V2..Vk, V1>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Otherwise, if `V` is `delegate*<V₂..Vₖ, V₁>` then inference depends on the i-th parameter of `delegate*<V₂..Vₖ, V₁>`:
```

>     - If V1:

Reviewer: I don't understand these bullets... Perhaps "For the return type V1" and "For the parameter types V2..VK"?

  - `U` is one of `IEnumerable<Uₑ>`, `ICollection<Uₑ>`, `IReadOnlyList<Uₑ>`, `IReadOnlyCollection<Uₑ>` or `IList<Uₑ>` and `V` is a single-dimensional array type `Vₑ[]`
  - `U` is the type `U1?` and `V` is the type `V1?`
  - `U` is constructed class, struct, interface or delegate type `C<U₁...Uₑ>` and `V` is a `class, struct, interface` or `delegate` type which is `identical` to, `inherits` from (directly or indirectly), or implements (directly or indirectly) a unique type `C<V₁...Vₑ>`

>   - `U` is a function pointer type (§function-pointers) then `delegate*<U2..Uk, U1>` and `V` is a function pointer type which is identical to `delegate*<V2..Vk, V1>`, and the calling convention of `U` is identical to `V`, and the refness of `Ui` is identical to `Vi`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `U` is a function pointer type (§function-pointers) then `delegate*<U₂..Uₖ, U₁>` and `V` is a function pointer type which is identical to `delegate*<V₂..Vₖ, V₁>`, and the calling convention of `U` is identical to `V`, and the refness of `Uᵢ` is identical to `Vᵢ`.
```

    > *Note*: This is only applicable in unsafe code. *end note*
  - (The “uniqueness” restriction means that given an interface `C<T>{} class V<Z>: C<X<Z>>, C<Y<Z>>{}`, then no inference is made when inferring from `C<U₁>` to `V<Q>`. Inferences are not made from `U₁` to either `X<Q>` or `Y<Q>`.)
  If any of these cases apply then an inference is made from each `Uᵢ` to the corresponding `Vᵢ` as follows:

>   - If `U` is not a function pointer type and `Ui` is not known to be a reference type, or if `U` is a function pointer type and `Ui` is not known to be a function pointer type or a reference type, then an *exact inference* is made

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If `U` is not a function pointer type and `Uᵢ` is not known to be a reference type, or if `U` is a function pointer type and `Uᵢ` is not known to be a function pointer type or a reference type, then an *exact inference* is made
```

    > *Note*: Function-pointer type-related text is only applicable in unsafe code. *end note*
  - Otherwise, if `V` is an array type then an *upper-bound inference* is made
  - Otherwise, if `U` is `C<U₁...Uₑ>` then inference depends on the `i-th` type parameter of `C`:
    - If it is covariant then an *upper-bound inference* is made.
    - If it is contravariant then a *lower-bound inference* is made.
    - If it is invariant then an *exact inference* is made.

> - Otherwise, if `U` is `delegate*<U2..Uk, U1>` then inference depends on the i-th parameter of `delegate*<U2..Uk, U1>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Otherwise, if `U` is `delegate*<U₂..Uₖ, U₁>` then inference depends on the i-th parameter of `delegate*<U₂..Uₖ, U₁>`:
```

>   - If `U1`:

Reviewer: Same as earlier, I think we can do better than this.

- If for at least one parameter `Mᵥ` uses the ***better parameter-passing choice*** ([§12.6.4.4](expressions.md#12644-better-parameter-passing-mode)) than the corresponding parameter in `Mₓ` and none of the parameters in `Mₓ` use the better parameter-passing choice than `Mᵥ`, `Mᵥ` is better than `Mₓ`.
- Otherwise, no function member is better.

> A `delegate*` is more specific than `void*`.

Reviewer: This feels a little out of place at the moment - is this for parameters, return types, anything else? (If it's parameters, then it should be in the "if Mv has more specific parameter types" bit.

- `E` exactly matches `T₁` and `E` does not exactly match `T₂` ([§12.6.4.6](expressions.md#12646-exactly-matching-expression))
- `E` exactly matches both or neither of `T₁` and `T₂`, and `T₁` is a better conversion target than `T₂` ([§12.6.4.7](expressions.md#12647-better-conversion-target))

>   - `V` is a function pointer type `delegate*<V2..Vk, V1>` and `U` is a function pointer type `delegate*<U2..Uk, U1>`, and the calling convention of `V` is identical to `U`, and the refness of `Vi` is identical to `Ui`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `V` is a function pointer type `delegate*<V₂..Vₖ, V₁>` and `U` is a function pointer type `delegate*<U₂..Uₖ, U₁>`, and the calling convention of `V` is identical to `U`, and the refness of `Vᵢ` is identical to `Uᵢ`.
```

> *Note*: The following is only applicable in unsafe code. *end note*

The *method_declaration* [§15.6.1](classes.md#1561-general) for an unmanaged method shall have the attribute `System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedCallersOnlyAttribute`. The use of this attribute on a method results in the following constraints:

- It is an error to directly call that method from C#. Instead, one can obtain a function pointer (§function-pointers) to that method and then invoke the method via that pointer.
- It is an error for that method to have a parameter or return type that is not an `unmanaged_type` ([§8.8](types.md#88-unmanaged-types)).
- It is an error for that method to have type parameters, even if those type parameters are constrained to `unmanaged`.
- It is an error for that method to be in a generic type.
- It is an error to convert that method to a delegate type.

> For a function pointer invocation, the *primary_expression* of the *invocation_expression* shall be a value of a *funcptr_type*. Furthermore, considering the method being pointed to to be a function member with the same parameter list as the *funcptr_type*, the *funcptr_type* shall be applicable ([§12.6.4.2](expressions.md#12642-applicable-function-member)) with respect to the *argument_list* of the *invocation_expression*.

Reviewer: Let's try to avoid the stuttering in this part:

> Furthermore, considering the method being pointed to to be a function member with the same parameter list as the *funcptr_type*

The run-time processing of a function pointer invocation of the form `F(A)`, where `F` is a *primary_expression* of a *funcptr_type* and `A` is an optional *argument_list*, consists of the following steps:

- `F` is evaluated. If this evaluation causes an exception, no further steps are executed.
- The argument list `A` is evaluated. If this evaluation causes an exception, no further steps are executed.

> - The value of `F` is checked to be valid. If that value is `null`, an implementation-defined exception is thrown, and no further steps are executed.

Reviewer: Does "valid" just mean "non-null"? If so, let's change it to say that - otherwise, let's add more detail about what "valid" means.
